[Music]
nine easy tips for better sleep and
great mornings if you've been feeling
more like sleepy dopey and grumpy rather
than yourself in the morning lately
sounds like you could use a better
night's sleep or quality rests leaves
you fatigued short-tempered and unable
to focus if it persists it can lead to
serious medical problems like obesity
type 2 diabetes high blood pressure and
heart disease so here are some tips that
will help you get the best sleep of your
life before you drift off hit that
subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to join us on the
bright side number 9 be careful what you
consume during the day surely you've
heard that you should avoid coffee late
in the day if you're not sleeping well
what may surprise you however is that
caffeine can impact your sleep even 10
more hours after you consume it this was
found in a 2013 study published in the
Journal of Clinical sleep medicine
besides coffee and tea be careful with
chocolate as well it contains caffeine
too other beverages to stay away from
our wine and other alcoholic drinks I
know what you're thinking but alcohol
makes you more relaxed so you go to
sleep easier while that may seem true on
the surface alcohol actually interferes
with your REM sleep which is the deepest
phase when you get the most rest finally
since nicotine is also a stimulant
smoking disrupt sleep as well make that
1,000,001 reasons to give up cigarettes
number 8 optimize your sleeping
environment according to dr. Karen
Carlson an associate professor of
medicine at Harvard Medical School the
best environment for sleep is quiet dark
and cool not cool is in lots of band
posters in your own mini-fridge although
would it be to have a fridge in your
bedroom anyway I'm talking about
temperature and it along with noise and
light can drastically impact sleep
quality if you can sleep in the quieter
part of your residence if you can't try
masking external noises with a fan or
white noise machine earplugs can also
help keep your room dark at night by
using heavy curtains or shades to block
out external light lastly keep it cool a
study by the laboratory of physiology
and environmental psychology in France
discovered that bedroom temperature
affects sleep quality even more than
external noise dust between 65 to 70
degrees Fahrenheit is best number seven
maximize your exposure to daylight
daylight plays a critical role in
regulating your natural sleep wake cycle
also known as your circadian rhythm
according to dr. Brandon Peters a
board-certified neurologist and sleep
medicine specialist it's best to catch
some morning race within an hour of
waking up eat breakfast by a window or
have your coffee while taking a walk
during the day let as much natural light
into your home or workplace as possible
if that's difficult a 2017 article
published in the journal sleep health
showed that bright artificial light can
also help number 6 exercise during the
day and here's yet another item you can
add to the long list of health benefits
you get from exercising dr. Karen
Carlson explains that exercise boosts
the effect of natural sleep hormones
such as melatonin the more vigorous the
exercise the more powerful the sleep
benefits but even light exercise like a
10-minute walk will improve sleep
quality just be careful of when you
exercise since doing it too close to
bedtime can overstimulate you now you're
thinking hey why don't I just exercise
outdoors in the morning you know to get
more daylight at the same time
so you have been paying attention
haven't you number five get and stay in
sync with your circadian rhythm try to
be consistent with the times you go to
sleep and wake up every day that's right
every single day including your days off
as awful as it is to imagine you should
try to avoid going to bed later and
sleeping in on the weekends a study
published in the Journal of sleep
research in 2003 points out that a
consistent sleep schedule enhances
long-term sleep quality of course we're
all guilty of staying up late for one
reason or another whether it's a late
night out with friends or a Netflix
binge that got a little out of hand in
that case just wake up as close as
possible to your normal time and opt for
a daytime nap instead this way you'll
reduce your sleep debt without
disrupting your day/night rhythm for two
days in a row number four start and
stick to a relaxing pre sleep routine
children everywhere are familiar with
having a book read to them and then
being tucked into bed each night this
comforting ritual helps slow than the
sleep but it doesn't just work on kids
even for adults a set of relaxing
bedtime rituals can have a similar
effect dr. Carlson explains yet again
that these sorts of rituals tell the
mind and body that it's time to prepare
for a sleep mode you've got tons of
options to choose from like listening to
relaxing music reading a book drinking a
warm glass of milk and taking a hot bath
or shower one study by the Chun Shan
medical University School of Nursing
even found that just a hot foot bath can
help improve sleep another method of
relaxation that's growing in popularity
is meditation although a little more
involved than the other techniques
meditation can help release tension and
place you in a state that's more
conducive to falling asleep a 2015 study
by the Greater Los Angeles healthcare
system showed that participants who
practice meditation fell asleep faster
and slept longer than those who didn't
meditate
number three learn how to fall back
asleep if you wake up waking up briefly
during the night is perfectly normal
especially if you have to go to the
bathroom but if you avoid drinking any
liquids for one to two hours before
bedtime you'll limit how often this
happens if you need some light to find
your way around when you do wake up use
a dim nightlight outside the room or in
the bathroom rather than turning on an
overhead light too much light will make
it harder to fall back asleep if you
have trouble falling back asleep don't
stress about it instead try deep
breathing or visualization to help your
body and mind relax if something in
particular is making you anxious or a
great ideas keeping you awake write it
down on the bedside notepad so that your
mind can let it go if nothing helps and
you're still awake after 15 minutes get
out of bed and do a quiet activity like
reading don't use a screen though since
this can send signals to the brain that
it is time to wake up number 2 dedicate
your bed just to sleeping if you're
doing things in your bed that aren't
connected to sleep such as browsing
social media doing your homework or
watching TV your brain will have a
harder time winding down in that same
space when it's time to fall asleep the
bed needs to be a stimulus for sleeping
not wakefulness
dr. Carlson advises of course the sleep
only rule isn't so strict with couples
if you want to do some cuddling nobody's
stopping you number one remove your bra
a final and seemingly random tip for
better sleep is to take off your bra
bras are not designed to be worn in bed
and can become uncomfortable after lying
down for long periods of time
discomfort leads to a loss of that ever
so important to REM sleep which requires
your body to be still besides making you
tired and less alert in the morning
reduced REM sleep can also have a
long-term effect on your memory at least
according to dr. James Maas author of
the best-selling book power sleep that's
because REM is the stage of sleep in
which your brain process
that these memories and helps you learn
so slip out of your bra and into
dreamland now some women may be
reluctant to take off their broad Knight
because they've heard that it can help
keep their breasts perky wasn't that
Marilyn Monroe's secret after all well
don't waste your time believing old
myths dr. Seth Rankin founder of the
London doctors clinic explains that
wearing a bra to bed is not only useless
it's also potentially harmful first of
all you don't need it to hold your girls
up against gravity's pull if you're
lying down in bed but more importantly
if your bra is too tight it can restrict
blood flow to your chest and lymphatic
flow to the nodes around the breast and
armpit do you have any tips of your own
on how to get a better night's sleep let
us know down in the comments don't
forget to give this video a like share
with your friends and click subscribe to
stay on the bright side
[Music]